How are you tonight from the lovely downtown dynasty theater you feel good I'm already
so drunk and a little high you look so damn good shout out to yourselves we
don't have a signature gritty tonight give him a round of applause though he
tried he was here and he had to go you know we also don't have a Jeff Davis
tonight but we do have me the poor man's a digs Brandon Johnson let's get right
into it and bring out the mayor of Harmontown you know how we get down
Dan Harmon!
Oh
back to the mic rock it up rock it down wait wait back to the mic rock it up
down
it's not gonna work I'm not I'm neither that talented tonight nor what
you think he you think he comes here for my rap I do you were like I put I got
a pocket square like I was here for his rapping no don't don't let him put you
on the spot you're disappointed that you're here in general it's a bad
neighborhood it's Monday night it's 8 o'clock dedicated man dead dedicated you
guys are all statistically more likely to die tonight because you didn't stay at
home was it worth ten dollars it might be worth if they gave you ten dollars
all right whatever I what do I got in my notepad let's take a look I'm sorry
tonight I got a little get a little drunker than I usually come in this drunk
what unless we have like a special guest we have a special guest tonight but I
mean like usually I'm like like Yardley Smith I was like God damn it Lisa
Simpson's coming in I'm like Norm and Lear I'm like wow you know it was like
it was an accident tonight I'm like Mark and our guest is gonna suffer all
right he's been briefed here's a thing I'm convinced that I've wanted to talk
about forever one car per green each lane how is this helping the freeway
system all right you're not confused when you get to that thing and it says
like that does it seem at all like you're in the hands of an infrastructure
one car per green each lane what think about it like if there's a bunch of
faucets at a trough where everybody's washing their hands right so everybody
can get in to each faucet and wash their hands but if some guy or some lovely
lady comes over and puts his or her hands in your stream then there's
confusion so if you can regulate the amount of hands going into each stream
you'll have a smooth flow I'm gonna put that in a different way which is which
is that someone looks at us like insects from from above and they go well if we
could just figure out a way to slow this spot and instead of them going we
should do our job better building things that's the good thing they put a
fucking thing that says you guys should intermittently stop that's dumb that's
stupid and no one obeys it no one knows what the fuck is going on it creates
tension it's like welcome to the machine it's like like that Pink Floyd song
starts like welcome here dear boy I'm a cigar because it's like welcome to the
freeway like don't fuck it it feels like you're like when you're like a freshman
in high school it's like it's like what there's a sign that says one car per
green each lane you're like everyone's like trying to muscle each other out
everyone's in a hurry there's a packed freeway ahead of you and everyone is
like pulling up at this thing and like looking at each other like it just
brings up the worst in everybody that's what they always do they throw the
trouble to the work to the people who can't deal with it they didn't know they
make it your problem they didn't know we weren't gonna share yeah no they knew
damn well like they just they just like well just put a fucking thing there for
the poor people to like bump up against like it'll slow him down that's all it
is it's like I'm telling you it's like something okay so I think my Adderall
doctor is getting cracked down on I went to see him snitch today and he was
like he took my blood pressure and he listened to my heart and he's like
writing the prescription he went by the way who gave you the ADD diagnosis I was
like that would be you and he made this face that was like he was hoping not to
hear that he was hoping to hear Sigmund Freud in 1830 absolutely because then
his response was like well can I give you a questionnaire that the medical board
gave me I fully expect next time I go to this doctor there's gonna be boxes in
the hallway I'm gonna drop this questionnaire in the mail to some
federal oversight committee that's like I promise I have trouble focusing I'm
telling you we will we'll keep our fingers crossed yeah that's not that
does not sound good well I guarantee you if I go to a professional psychiatrist as
he like I I I I'll bet you a million Adderall tablets oh shit okay this is
why yeah that's the currency of the future no what the fuck why do you think
I want this prescription because I'm like I'm stockpiling I don't take nearly as
many this better not get out I always trick the doctor into going like well
you need 30 niblets a day or whatever that's the answer is 15 and then I
slowly build up it's like a one of those games like no no it's like clash of
clans junkies don't know junkies don't stockpile how dare you okay I'm doing it
right I'm a prepper I'm I'm going to have my currency of the future like when
we're all like hip-deep and water and like everyone's like in ghillie suits
and we're just like whoa how many bottle caps for that shopping cart and I'm
gonna be like dude I got the wakey pills because no the best thing to do is
stay awake during the apocalypse yeah what no no the best thing to do is sleep
I'm out what's your car okay well then yeah I'm dead in the first round you
should be stockpiling carbon monoxide there's things you should be stockpiling
I'm not that's none of my business I I intend to go out kicking and screaming
really yeah yep yeah yep no I don't care planet Earth I'm gonna say this is
the best week we're doing right now no plumbing and fucking air conditioning
can you imagine what we'll do when those things are gone nope there'll be no
Halloween I'm gonna do one of those things I'm gonna assure my pets and my
fiancee I'm gonna be like you're right let's all go out right now it's early Steve
Levy save lady yeah run of applause for Steve Levy ladies and gentlemen Steve
Levy he took the note it was like you know Jeff called him out it's like it
seems egregious I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna be one of those
controversial guys in the apocalypse I'm gonna I'm gonna say yes let's all take
the cyanide tablet together but I'm gonna I'm gonna hang out what do you just
just so I know what is the thing that's gonna make you be like fuck this I'm
not sticking around I thought I could my intestines getting ripped out by zombie
no I'm not I'm telling you I'm leaving this life under protest period because I
think that's what God will hate I think he designed me for suicide I feel like I
feel like I'm like I'm like you know I'm in that I'm in a vocational category of
like like you know like I'm supposed to fucking no offense to anyone who feels
that way or I don't want your last thought to be like
Jen Harmon thinks I said like this I also want you to talk to someone etc but
like I'm telling you I'm telling you I'm not doing it I'm not doing it man yeah
man doing it I just you know and I decided that during my bladder infection
because I'm like this hurts it hurts to pee yeah that'll make it feels like I
gotta pee when I don't have to be I'm like you know what I'm sticking around
all my predecessors this is when they checked out you know you get a little
bladder thing yeah I'm sticking around I want to spit in the eye of whatever's
left when you've been reduced to nothing I want to be there for that fucking like
who watch you the watcher fucking Marvel character whatever the thing that
shows up goes like wow yeah move where are you still alive because I wanted to
do this yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna be that like I'm gonna fucking like I want to
Vasquez and aliens with the grenade I'm gonna be like I want to look at nobody
if my lover's not left I'm just gonna like yeah hang on to that grenade ballsy
well it's not ballsy it's kind of it's also sort of a form of cowardice I'm
like yeah I'm gonna you can't drag me out of here I'm not doing it but I'll be
dead when I'm dead plenty of time for that that shit's dope claiming ownership
over your your own sort of like I'm not leaving as dope me on the other hand bye
motherfucker I'm going at the first sign of some bullshit I'm talking about you
can't when you can't get your car when you can't get your license plate tags
I'm fucking out all right somewhere in the middle there well all right well you
know I'll feel I'll feel differently tomorrow like I said I came in a little
drunk I'm a little numb to the whole thing I'm like mom bulletproof I say
give me a blowjob shot I don't care I'm a doomsday prepper okay look our next
guest is an author he's got a new book out called it came from something awful
please welcome Dale Barron or not you know he doesn't have to ladies and
gentlemen Dale Baron there are no wrong answers hello sir sit anywhere you like
I think people might have opinions about it but I don't thank you for getting
special drunk for me oh no problem yeah I know I'm not special it didn't show right
you only know because I told you I appreciate it all right good so I can
keep drinking and you won't be like oh god he's okay so your book yeah it's
about the history of 4chan's last 8chan yes yeah it goes back to the very
beginning yeah it goes from like 2003 when the site 4chan was founded all the
way up to now when we're not all right terrorist epidemic that is formed off
8chan until I guess last week when got cut off yeah so I thought I was writing
about something like really irrelevant but like well book came out and I was
trying to explain to people and then like I went on vacation and there were all
these horrible shootings and like I was on the like at my beach house like not I
don't have a beach house but I was like I was I was at a B&B and like the owner
was like oh the 8chan they just shut it down right like everyone now knows the
sites yeah all that it's and what and I hate to be one of these interviews this
is my big pet peeve with interviewers where they go what do you say to the
people who say like but I like because they're just saying like well what if I
like what do you say to the people who say shutting down venues for like like
making it legal for bad people to convene go for it man what do you say to
those yeah I actually agree that 8chan should be shut down I spoke to the
founder of 8chan who also thinks it should be shut down like one of my
sources for the book he's like please shut it down right this picture this
middle-aged guy with a comb over it's like I just meant for the kids to have a
good time if only it were like it was supposed to be twice as much fun as
4chan that's the point yeah no he's like yeah he's like 25 he's a disability he's
like three feet tall and it's in a wheelchair and he lives in the Philippines
he's a programmer Jesus yeah that's the founder of 8chan yeah and founder the
founder of 8chan but you say he's 25 years old he founded it when he was seven
yeah he maybe he founded it when he was 20 so it's it's it started in 2013 so I
think that's about right yeah yeah so maybe 27 now yeah well I guess I wanted
to headline with the whole like kind of like so but you're let's say you're in
favor after all the research that you've done you're like yeah pull the plug but
in case that gets people's dander up and I don't mean if it gets your dander up
you may be a person who like me when you hear stories about stuff it's like I
don't know I tend to I always skew towards the the middle where I'm like wait
that's not gonna help like like don't don't you can't make right you can't
make microphones illegal because you didn't like what someone said into them
right yeah that's kind of where I started to where I was like oh it'll just be
like the war on terror and then it'll just spread the fire elsewhere which does
happen but 8chan in particular it is it's just so poorly moderated that the
idea that you're gonna have a place where you're gonna allow all this legal
content and no one's gonna police it the internet it turns out there it's very
hard to run that there's a lot of people enabling that and when it's gone it
turns out that most of those shooters like 19 20 years old and that they
posted stuff like the pal the Poway shooter was like oh I was just been here
a year and a half I've learned so much he's like 19 right so it was clear that
teenagers are going there finding the site getting radicalized by these older
losers that have been there for like 10 years and then on 4chan even longer so
if that's broken up and like they go hide in discord servers or they go hide in
weird places it's gonna be a lot harder for those teenagers to find it and and
this to happen it actually like when you de-platform it when you punch Nazis on
the street they do go away does that like solve the Nazi problem no does it's
to solve those systemic issues does it dress those no but how does that survive
is it truly forgive me in advance for being like this weird like but what
about or whatever guy but like I but I honestly want to like it's I I may be
dating myself where it's like it the internet began as this place that was
the Wild West right and the beneficial parts of it were absolutely because of
its lack of oversight censorship right and when we when we talk about net
neutrality we we we worry about the idea of corporate psychology creeping into a
place that was possibly the bastion of free thought and went right and the ACL
use very sometimes unsavory but I think admirable kind of stance is always like
look if Nazis want to get a permit and parade we have to protect their speech
as much as we protect a million man March because we we don't care if the
quality of the speech that we're protecting etc etc right I'm throwing
this shit at you not not because I actually want to challenge you because
I'm 46 and I'm tired and I want all these kids fucking off my lawn sure but
I'm actually throwing it at you because I think a probably like maybe a there's
a bell curve of my listeners who I would assume especially even if they're
decent people that they're kind of like skewing towards well wait a minute what
are we pulling the plug on microphones right yeah so I mean there's a few
things to parse there where the First Amendment covers the government's
restricting speech so when you let the Nazis March and in free speech zones and
things like that in the ACL who defends them that's the good that's really
defending their right through the First Amendment for the government not to do
it it's sort of another story when you are building all of these tools that
allow the person to use this message board and then there's another company
that creates the DDOS protection and there's another company that runs the
servers and all of these creative people have created together this space their
contributions have then created a Chan and allow it to thrive and the Internet
you're right the Internet was built as this decentralized place where anyone
created a website anyone can go and put their stuff online and I guess the
Internet still allows neo-nazis to do that but the other come the other part
there is that like if you have all the stuff that other people built there
they don't ever they don't have some obligation to have their creation used
that way so the fact that Facebook they or the company that does DDOS protection
like hack attack protection against websites that they're like no right
that that to me seems valid that you don't have a right to use all everyone's
junk that way like everyone's creative work that way so and that's but Facebook
is evil and yeah there's also selling your information they're profiting
they're a corporate for-profit thing yeah they they have a lot of also off they
also have a lot of terrible problems I can't believe I'm accidentally like like
but what about him on behalf of this thing that's the thing is that I feel
like I feel personally like the thing that's scooting me off of out of this
arena right is precisely because transparency is dead vulnerability is
dead freedom is dead visibility is is nothing but a liability etc etc and
it's partially like every bone in my body wants to rumble the the brigands
and and and firebrands that have rumbled me for instance like they don't like
they don't like who I am as a visible person and to the extent that they are
they they coordinate they reveal that nine years ago I fucked a baby in a
comedy sketch boom boom he should be fired but it's a fake baby yeah fake
baby the doll baby yeah I mean also made love to those guys I mean they but it's
but it's it's AT&T that almost fired me and it's it's also partially people that
you could call liberal that were like oh I didn't know that he should be canceled
his life should be ruined right and it's almost like like I look back I got
rumbled by these guys and by these guys I mean like this not of that internet and
I'm like I'm like well that's the shadow I cast when I was 27 sure and I thought
like them and felt like them and aren't they just kind of coming back to haunt
me and saying you were like us don't fucking hi-road us don't do Whiting
Wong's with Jessica Gao don't you don't you dare how dare you make Rick and
Morty and like say that it's not okay to be racist we're gonna fucking out you
and like like rumble you and I was sort of like touche I'm done and I don't like
them yeah but at the same time I don't like I will never advocate for it's like
it is hard when I hear this like it's like it's like oh shit we're gonna we
shut this area down right but I I'm sorry I'm babbling all this shit at you
and I don't mean to be content overly contentious no it I love it because I
want I want because you wrote a whole fucking book about this and you went
back to the roots right we had a conflict journalist on the previous yeah it
was yeah and like I read some of his shit and I was like goddamn that's a
compelling case and I think it's right it's when you start to contextualize it
in terms like global politics right you start to think about it like if this
were ISIS right that's when you start to chill like your mind starts to go yeah
if we if we knew about a network on our internet that was radicalizing youth
etc etc yeah so right so I think you're kind of extending them a little too much
credit I guess I don't know that you were them this is a different breed of yeah
I think that at 27 your mindset was not where these cats well I will only want
I only want to say this to be perfectly fair like things that I said in text at
the age of 27 were I mean I we didn't have the same words for it that we have
today and I could but I I was a I was a young man that prided himself on seeing
beyond the grand illusion yeah but you weren't looking for a racial mentor you
weren't looking for a racist that could sort of help solidify that you had been
correct in your thoughts about society certainly would have drawn the line there
right but I think also that's because I was talented but that's between you and
that yeah that's why I don't truck with white these guys don't because they're
fucking obviously untalented otherwise why would they be proud of the color
there's right which is also why they need they want a platform built for them
right where I take us back to 2014 2014 is sort of a start and you have the
lineage broken down right you can get us there quickly because I think that
answers some of what you're asking well no yeah no I wanted to sorry I just want
to say this at the beginning the reason I threw all this shit at you is because
I eventually you're gonna take us from the from the root to the leaves I didn't
want anybody out there to have a resistant read to it I wanted them to
like lower their arms and go like look okay so we're just being objective and
obviously no one writes a book about this shit without diving deep and opening
themselves up to it and I just didn't want there's I just I didn't want to I
didn't want anybody out there to be like but I'm Han Solo so why should I buy
into this that's that's it so yeah I mean if imagine something where the
creator it's himself is like this needs to be destroyed right that's sort of
where we are with this debate where it's I mean it's just like you create
anything right you make art and and like if the arts bad no one has the right
you know like I have the right like everyone has to pay attention there's
someone else has to promote it right it's it's like the right to promotion is
what they're asking for we're like you can you can put your Nazi garbage up on
a website no one's preventing you from doing that but all of the stuff that it
takes to to like create something like HN which loses a ton of money it's just
there as a man who makes money off of this sort of speech like who makes money
off these sites HN loses a lot of money and it's just there this is like a
crazy businessman in the Philippines who just adores it and his son also was
avid HN user that's why he owns the site how much you think they lose it's not
sure I didn't actually get that number out but I know that it's probably in the
thousands of dollars so he's kind of like he just loves making that kind of
material well yeah so so that's that's the other issue that yeah there's been
many times where people have tried to create these sites and and and they've
just flopped and so now we have this weird scenario where HN was just this
one weird guy who who fell into a great deal of money could yeah and and now and
that runs up until last week but what if we're so so take us back because your
book is called it it came from something awful you want to do that you want to do
the sweep yeah I mean if you don't want to sure no no let's let's do it so the
the nutshell sweep is that in 2003 was the start of 4chan and it was really out
of the sort of nihilist 90s nihilist sort of slacker culture which was another
site called something awful where or that sort of humor where you're like
dropping out of life you're like I don't care about politics whatever I'm gonna
just sort of have this race to the bottom of transgressive humor and it's
gonna be worse and worse and worse and that site got so kind of dark and
cynical that it had a spin-off which was 4chan and 4chan and even less
moderation it was started by like a 15 year old kid who was into anime and he
combined that he copied a site in Japan called 2chanal and 2chanal was really
dedicated to a taku culture so this idea of like I'm just gonna drop out I'm not
gonna climb the hierarchy of success I'm not gonna go to school it's too hard I'm
not gonna have a job I'm gonna just hang out and consume fantasy products all
day Tyler Durden yeah like or anything pepper yeah like Tyler Durden there was
definitely like a fight club thing where like everything is like things that
are appealing to people are people that like unplug and go like whatever the
fuck big Lebowski like yeah I mean yeah I feel like in the 90s there was just
this sense of on we were people like nothing's gonna we're just sort of like
unhappy we gotta like we're not gonna do that was the alternative comedy move
that people who are whiny who are among who are who are my honored colleagues Sarah Silverman Janine
Graffalo David Cross like alternative comedians who began as actually just
like thrusting their hands in their pockets I'm going like I know one thing
I'm I sure the fuck I'm not Judy Tenuta right like I'm not I'm not Tim
Allen that's for sure and now like we're the exact opposite part where youth
culture is like they're like we're gonna have a socialist revolution and
Pikachu was gonna lead it or whatever like right like that's like youth culture
where they're like you out while Luigi out there fighting the proud boys right
so that that how do we get from there is through this these websites right so so
up until 2007 fortune becomes wildly popular it is where memes come from
that's where they invented memes and they sort of invented these trolling
collectives of like probably most importantly though it's because it's
the anonymity culture right yeah there's no way to know on 4chan who you are
like it's it's just rampant carnival like right in a world that where you can
do that anywhere but it's like 4chan almost like you can't go on to 4chan
and go hey it's me you know me mr. clean like you can't you can't create an
identity you can but it was like look down upon but yeah it was almost all
anonymous so it was just default the name that you put in the box was anonymous
that's what the software displayed so everyone was anonymous and was self
deleting content it was super fast frenetic sort of like that the Facebook
feed before the Facebook feed where it's just churning through the sort of most
popular commented upon comments and that's sort of like weird ecosystem
generated memes so anything was interesting or gross or the most insane
stuff popped to the top and it was just this constant flow so that was like what
the youth culture was about do you think that's because it's easy to show an
image than to be clever that was part of it it was definitely like a competition
to be weird gross and funny that's really what it was and like the founder of
something awful described it to me is like everyone was competing there to be
the most fucked up piece of shit possible and they were all winning right
that was the competition would you look at the movies from back then pump up the
volume heathers I'm talking to you Christians later I really want to pin
the blame squarely on head I really just want to put it there breakfast club
everything like kill yourself kill everyone else here was good there was
this there was this heroism denialism it was like if smash whatever you can yeah
I I remember being like 13 and my brother who was no fucking hero in the
neighborhood marveling at what he called the the beastie boys generation as he
looked at me and my 13-year-old friends we were like behaving the way we were in
a mall because I think we had gotten some impulse in our head from watching
weird science and breakfast club and all these things that we were like your job
as a hero is to hack culture right everything around you is horseshit
John Hughes told me so if it has a logo on it then it's garbage right and to the
extent that I smash it I am a hero right so that's what I kind of go over in the
book with the crazy thing about that is that like that was new and we still have
it today but it started in the 80s and then the 90s and sort of got worse and
worse as entertainment culture and marketing culture just expand it right
so in the 60s youth culture was about like socialist revolution where we're
back to today and they're about like oh they had like sincere politics and they
were gonna change the world and then by the time we reach the 90s it's like
we're in this psychic garbage dump the psychic garbage dump is like full of
all of these different marketers and all these products and all this pop culture
and we're just like skimming in the bits and it's represented on the internet
and we're gonna like cobble it back together into memes and that's gonna
be our culture and we're just gonna drop out because it's so hopeless so that's
where it was and then it totally flipped in like 2008 and
anonymous 4chan birthed anonymous the hacker collective and they're like oh
we're so powerful we were so many young men like hundreds thousands of people
all collectivized online which have a lot of power like we created memes that
was powerful we can intimidate people as hackers and troll armies that's
powerful and they said well oh we have these things that we believe in we
believe in libertarian internet freedom we were anti-corporation we're
anti-church of Scientology and suddenly they became this like cogent
political movement so the opposite happened and like they're protesting on
the sprit streets and I'm like going to the protests and it's like the raids
that they have online they're addressed as the same cartoon characters I want to
I want to pause there because you said you said they flipped in 2008 and what
you want to be clear about what you mean they flipped maybe from towing the line
that they would you would automatically assume and maybe people are outraged
like how could they possibly be Nazis they flipped to conservative is what you
mean they know what do they flip to they flip from dropped out nihilism to
political activism well okay so they were on the left then oh so they flip
they flip from Alanis Moore is it having one handed her pocket the other
flashing a peace sign to both hands manipulating the political scene yeah
one on the computer right in the glow of the green they're like okay we're I
like I think Alanis Moore said is the best vessel to understand this
which is ironic yeah I'm just trying to put her in the yeah right this finally
finally which is ironic yeah but now we're here's ironic finally got there so
like yeah like ironic convergence yeah so you know like last week when Waluigi
is fighting the proud boys or whatever like two days ago and he's got the
anonymous mask on the guy Fox mask which is like from a comic book which is from
a movie but the movie is about anti-fascism and political activism and
right so they took all that pop culture stuff movies and comics and they're like
oh this is real this is sincere we're not ironic and we can do this we're a
lobbying group it's sort of like it's not unlike baby boomers going like oh
we're silver foxes let's do this I so 2008 you're looking at there's this
pivot point because that's probably when what the Tom Cruise thing happens
yeah that's exactly right anonymous that's the moment taking down
Scientology yeah obvious bad guy right and it's sort of like that dopamine rush
like oh my god but that I've seen documentaries where it's like well it's
almost like the weatherman or the the it's like any kind of like activist
group like the the people that were involved in that you you have no way of
knowing they vanish and that there's people who take their place who are like
and then that that I am not your personal army kind of things yeah it's
like because it's like oh we have this power let's use it to make this girl
kill herself yeah because she's a slut and and and then people go like what
that's how was how does that equate with our battle with Scientology yeah yeah
that was the huge problem of making a decentralized group yeah where anyone
could say oh that's us and it was that trolling sensibility where there the
boards were still full of nihilists and they broke so there was like a big
split so half of them are like no we're gonna have we're gonna be real
political actors we're gonna fight for democracy in the Arab Spring and then
the other half are like no we're trolls still and we want to still do obnoxious
things like hack forums so hack an epilepsy forum with flashing gifs so
everyone has a seizure right that was what they did to say to sort of fight
back against the image that they're hacktivists so yeah there was a big
split there but the anonymous hacktivist hacktivist collective actually goes on
for the next few years and they defend Julian Assange and all this stuff but
then the FBI just arrests all the principal members they go after all of
them and most of them went to jail and that's the end of the movement and then
we get the moment that you're waiting for where after that happens then the
boards are like ultra nihilistic the losers are they've been there for like
six or seven years new kids are coming in and then they flip to the right that's
like the movement that that's the movement towards the right and that's
because like those sort of dynamics where really it's you have less and less
opportunities for kids to have fulfilling jobs to move out of their
parents have like adequate housing have access to education that's getting
worse after the 2008 crash and then on the other half you have expanding
screen worlds expanding entertainment products you guys live forever in the
video games and like society makes it really easy to do that they're like you
want to play Mario maker to all your all day yeah that's great I like and that's
a libertarian world but the guy who created the Silk Road was a passionate
libertarian libertarianism ironically is like a closer cousin to conservatism
because you want you want no oversight you want no regulation you want the
free market to figure it out and that makes a hell of a lot of sense if your
parents try not to be way the fuck wrong about you being good at Mario brothers
not leading to you making a lot of money yeah this world kind of like says to
them like mounting student debt and also they're they're they're writing this
wave of like it's too many Facebook posts about affirmative action gone wrong
about things like everything that's click-worthy is like about the world's
gone sour right all of these dreams of the voting voting rights act and all
these things oh it's political correctness has gone mad that there's
nothing fun for a 15-year-old about about going like that that was the other
thing here's the thing littering's bad yeah that's not yeah and that I cover
in my book as well we're like the same time that's happening tumblr which is
the majority all female image-sharing site that's sort of like a female version
of 4chan except nice it is developing a new sort of set of leftist politics
which is full of feminist critical theory but it's also very rigid in its
structure and it's for very many valid reasons it's based around this idea that
like okay there's cis white males at the top of this powered pyramid and then the
idea of politics is let's ever lift everyone up to that same level all the
other minority groups and then you have this vast group of of men on the
margins young men on the margins of 4chan and they're like we are the
oppressed ones right we are losers and they're furious at that then they want
to abandon the left for that reason and of course like you're saying like it's
very polite that culture so they sort of agree upon a moral value system and they
all sort of append it and then they said that's it that's the moral system that
we're gonna have and 4chan as trolls and like young men who wanted to fend they
were like really delighted in trolling that culture being the outsider and sort
of steering into the skid mean like alright if I'm the loser I'm gonna be
like the best loser that like right of the worst you don't have do you have a
chapter in your book about about tumblr being a bag of shit like I am
society based on tumblr I fled that as quickly as I've fled I heavily critique
tumblr yeah it's if 4chan considers tumblr the girls camp across the lake
and they're going on panty rain yeah basically what's happening juvenile
behavior yeah right we're gonna we're gonna do a DNS attack and fucking this
chicks a cat and all this shit like children yes and I've been abused by
both of them I shake my cane at all of them I go you're young I'll be on
Instagram yeah some reason but like showing myself swimming in my pool
right yeah so you're like right it's kind of inherently you're like oh it's
just kids but like the weird thing is that tumblr's politics then got imported
into leftist politics and then 4chan's politics got imported into the right and
it's like those all of those ideas that like incubate it there then those kids
grew up they're a few years older and they just now they're everywhere right so
it's like god they're feeding into each other and it's a it's sort of the
bottom line is sort of more of an anthropological one which is the
children are communicating faster like they're speaking a language we don't
understand I that's what drives me away from the whole thing is like I don't get
you kids anymore I don't get when you really mean it but three faces with
tears coming out of your eyes like do you mean you hate me why can't you
understand my dryness like I'll go like I'll say in all due friendship to
somebody on Instagram like I'll kind of I'll give what I consider to be like
kind of like I'm a middle-aged man and like somebody like jab me a little bit
like a juvenile kind of jab and I'll I'll do what I think is like the right
thing to do which is jab them back a little harder but be like like don't be
fucking like like and then they'll go like dude chill what the fuck's wrong with
you I'm gonna sue you and then I'm like there's no I'm afraid of young people
and sure well they should be afraid young people are afraid each other yeah
they're deeply afraid yeah it's tumbler versus fortune yes you're exactly right
that I say in my book it's based on fear that's the fundamental value that
they're all powerless but I'll say I mean I in case anyone wants to know I'm
not I'm not both siding it I because my tenure on tumbler like the result of it
is an inbox full of of vulnerable honest yes like right people who like if I
start talking about it I'll cry because I can't I can't pile through the
messaging of people reaching out to me yeah and letting me know personal things
and fortunes like I'm coming to your house I'm gonna mutilate you with a
scalpel I mean yeah yeah they're like yeah it's it's because every the on the
other side it's all about identity right yeah it's that phrase identity
politics yeah coming up yeah so the way that I critique tumbler my book is that
I think that the sites themselves tumbler and social media is based around
self-obsession that you're put you're putting all this stuff up and you're
creating this hall of mirrors where you're like looking at all the selfies
and you're like what selfie best reflects my lifestyle and that's what it
can it's very addictive that's why it exists in the first place because they
wanted to keep going back but then the politics then reflects that obsession
with cultivating your your identity and yourself yeah so it really comes from
like some asshole at the top it's just like I'm raking it in there's some key
here where it's like it I swear I it fuses with Joseph Campbell where it
because the ornamentation of ritual and stuff like it the when anonymity becomes
a culture and they it's carnival and it's like wait a minute how many days have
we been doing this like are you a bird man that's like allowed to rape me or
you are my fucking banker like I don't understand that question but I'm learning
this for my tour of Venice it is the best question there was this thing that
the royalty was like okay it started with like a kind of a let the meat cake
thing and let's all have a Halloween party and then it grew and grew and grew
because people were finding more and more this is a great healthy outlet for
me to be who I really am and by who I really am I mean who I really am not
and so that's a commentary on either a society is not allowing me to be who I
am but in any case isn't it like that moment in to kill a mockingbird where you
know Atticus steps out in the porch he looks at these guys in the hoods and he
goes hey clay Simmons I bought bird feed from your house the other day hey John
Goldberg there probably wasn't John Goldberg in to kill a mockingbird
this is my Dan Harmon revised to kill a mockingbird it light is a disinfectant
it yes anonymity is a fucking problem and yet so is fame culture yeah there's
two ends of the spectrum where people go like if if I can brand myself and
people can understand who I am it's me Daphne yes and I represent only the
best things in the world yeah that's the right disorder will be in the
background I always think and then you have the Tyler Durden in snickering
is like Daphne is full of shit but in order to express that you don't
yourself go my name's Tyler Durden it's on my birth certificate I risk my
identity I choose to call you out Daphne what you do is you put on a ski mask and
you throw apples at her house and I'm thinking like you two are monsters both
of shadows that you cast like is there yeah what is my point I don't know I
don't know you got the dialectic right yeah they're both awful yeah something
requires something there yeah the idea that that and I swear to God I want to
repeat again I the shit that ever happened to me when I got rumbled by
these droogs yeah I deserve every scrap of it like you hear me guys I am not
complaining I don't I don't know about that um but I want to say in terms of
dialectic like if you have to remain anonymous in order to accomplish your
goals right we have a tradition in our culture with those people like we we are
pretty sure that those people are saying one I don't believe in a
representative democracy I we are being fooled by our migration to online into
thinking that we don't matter as people and and and we're it's almost like I'm
sorry if this is a crass metaphor but it's almost like the entire internet
basically says to us you're automatically in a hood when you log on and
it's your choice how much you want to roll it up and show your face and the
people that choose to do that are influencers and they're they're
dishonest and but you if you do nothing if you exhibit no effort at all you're
in a hood now people at the deep hole yeah they're they do bad things like they
do things that they don't they wouldn't be actually willing to do if their job
was on the line if their mother's love was on the line like that's yeah so
you're right that I'm not the anonymity of 4chan created a really toxic
environment and really no one sorry about that no one had really done anything
like that allowed it to fester like that before and you're right that when
they're anonymous when people are anonymous they treat each other like
total garbage they do garbage things they know there's no consequences but at
the same time the other side where there were all these corporations who were
like oh well it's very addictive to replicate the ego online and enchant
people through this hall of mirrors where they're constantly looking at their
self-image and so then you get this vast population of young people who are
interested in doing that and build the whole culture around it and so
anonymous and 4chan culture was like we are built around rating corporate
spaces on corporate online spaces breaking them apart breaking apart the
fantasy oh you think you're gonna be a wonderful dwarf in second life well I'm
gonna go in there and ruin the whole experience for you because you're you're
under a delusion right to see it so yeah something here that that that aligns
ironically with the transgender movement like I go online where you go like I I
am allowed to be proud of myself like it I would be outnumbered at work I'd be
outnumbered at school I'd be outnumbered everywhere I went in real life but online
I'm able to actually access other people that are telling me I too feel the way
you feel you are not alone you are not outnumbered you'll never win a
district there's no way for us to take over a fucking section of a city right
but here here you are it's like that the internet is lowering shamed walls and
that includes for Nazis yeah that's very true yeah so I mean I write about this
in the book where there's lots of positive ways where if you're trans or
if you're gay and then you can meet other folks and that's where how people
described it that way the internet in the 90s so it was like a breath of fresh
air that they could actually do that and then the but the flip side of course is
that you get groups you get a group think that if everyone wants to get
there I'll get together and they're like I love suicide you're like oh yeah I
love you I love suicide too and they're like that's great we should all think
about how we're gonna kill ourselves or how we're gonna get like so thin that
we're gonna be anorexic and that happened on 4chan as well with the
incels and so forth said that they got together and they're like I'm such an
otaku I'm so doomed I'm just gonna I think that I'm born to be on 4chan for
my entire life and never go outside only like look at anime that's just
inherently who I am and then the rest of them were just convincing them that
they're like exactly right yeah yeah and so that generated like yeah like this
weird group think and it got even worse and out of that culture grew the alt
right so it's crazy because they say this is also what causes addiction is
loneliness and these people were very lonely oh yeah they were like some of
these people deserve to be lonely yeah I mean you could say that like I I also
like to mock them and I don't like particularly like a lot of them yeah so
I only have a I only have a dislike because I think that they don't value
skills that we all have to hone yeah yeah I mean that's that's the other thing
that like it's kind of like the you know like my first job out of college was
teaching middle school and there was like the one kid that got bullied and
like then he just became an asshole because yeah right because he's like I'm
gonna own it right he's like that's my recourse that's what I'm gonna be or he
was an asshole and we all knew yeah yeah yeah honestly there have been kids
that you learn you stand up for them and then as you turn to them before somebody
punches them you're like I got your back and they're like thanks nigger and you're
like oh my god yeah right yeah yeah right so and I do every time you say
that word Brandon I just love it I love hearing it I'm so sorry you know I can't
say it anymore even as a joke I just let me be to you maybe in a tent we go to
Utah I could like take you to a national park and whisper in your ear through an
encrypted walkie-talkie Brandon what can I say one more time go ahead friend I let
you for your birthday you know the inward is like lingerie for special
occasions maybe you standing next to me we had a concert and I look over and I'm
like you can sing along baby special tonight is your friendship with your
black friend failing that spark spruce it up with this beautiful n-word the
hard-earned boosts your irreverence
cheating me man yeah no that's what part of the deal part of the deal you get a
pork chop recipe and you get to say the n-word but let's let's talk about you
the person you're experiencing yeah yeah sure because that's very interesting so
how long ago does this journey start oh god oh god so I I found fortune very
early on maybe like 2004 I was I started my career doing webcomics and they were
linking in my site I saw that they're in their fur logs that they were linking my
comic so I kind of found them that way and I knew about something awful and then
they were at my local anime convention in Baltimore and I thought yeah and then
they were just like nerds right in costume they were just losers in costume
what do you mean they how do you know that they're they would that was the
only place they would meet they would have a four-chan meetup and they would
like sing memes and stuff and like that's literally god that's so delightfully
nerdy yeah like the one one year they sang the Fresh Prince of Bel Air theme
song in the rounds right that was like what they would do right they started
the way we all did yeah yeah exactly like it was that same nerdy culture right
like of like yeah but it was crazy origami became a hating black people I
love that yeah exactly like how do you get yeah right yeah well how do you how
do you distinguish yourself and they're not right they're they're just nerds back
then and they're like we were trying to replicate what's on the screen sure yeah
so so I knew about them then and I was like this is crazy and then I saw that
it was expanding and it was inventing all this stuff that like just had this
huge impact on culture and then I tried to report on them in 2008 I went to
their to the anonymous meeting like when they went and intimidated church of
Scientology and did the protest I still couldn't figure it out and then let me
pause you there so in this big so you're leading up to the peak because I've seen
the documentaries and up till now we're talking about heroes here so were you
writing that wave you're like these are great this is a great thing yeah I I
thought they were pretty inspiring that that they would at least kind of have
agency over their life culture yeah I want to be a Linux guy I don't fucking PC
or a Mac I want to throw my mouse in the garbage and have fingerless gloves like
you know like a tic a tic a tic a tic a tic between the like let's just like drop
out and kill each other youth culture that I grew up in right where you're
like whatever it's just like we're just watching TV all day and like making
shitty jokes like that changing into like we're gonna destroy Mastercard right
like that that idea I was like oh that's I'm glad that they're sort of finding
some political agency still yeah because that sounds awesome yeah yeah just the
name says destroy me right but I kind of want I was doing comics still and stuff
like that but I wanted to be a writer so I was like oh I'll write on them but I
still didn't understand what the hell was happening and I kind of like I went
on did other works of the last work that I did before the 4chan book was I was
doing I did it like a pilot for Cartoon Network I was doing like cartoons and
stuff so I was like oh that'll be you know I'll do that side but by 2016 they
started popping up back in the news they were intimidating the art scene across
the country but also in Baltimore so like my friends were getting harassed by
4chan and I was like oh this was in the wake of the ghost ship fire I don't even
remember if you like there there was one of these sort of show spaces that caught
on fire and it was like a fire hazard a lot of folks San Francisco yeah I think
so right and this guy had had a bunch of spaces yeah you've been doing it for a
really long time and something went wrong yeah and 4chan decided at that
point well like oh well we hate people on the left we hate young people that are
kind of like us that are happy and out partying and they had already moved to
the right and they're like let's do this all over the nation let's intimidate
these people with the show spaces so I was like oh I this is a yeah I mean just
yeah awful stuff but at that point I was like trying to explain it to my
friends I was like no they were nerds who were like singing the Fresh Prince of
Bel Air theme song like ten years ago that like it was like as I was like all
right I'll write it up I kind of thought you know a few people would read it or
whatever I pitched to the magazines they said no and then I self-published it on
medium and like millions of people read it they're like everyone was like you
know baby boomers were like what the hell like because at that point Richard
Spencer had been punched by Antifa with Pepe the Frog pin which is the
4chan symbol of loser them Trump had tweeted himself as Pepe the Frog and
people are like what the hell is happening so that article at least was
one of the first ones there probably would have been other people that would
have rushed to fill that void but I just accidentally happened to be first and
then I became doomed to write the book where people are like well now we need
a book you can sell the book and then it was kind of like it's like those
science fiction movies where like it's kind of like the trope or like they're
like there's the mystery zone and we're like like we're gonna turn a bunch of
Marines in like they're not coming back but like then like then you know the one
comes back and he's like all fucked up like that's me like they didn't expect
me to come back right they're like like the contract was like you know if you
don't make it just you got you got to give the money back right I want to
circle back to the oh sorry Brandon what are you got well I I want to circle back
to the Pepe the Frog thing because I believe they're you're you're shooting
a documentary you need those sound bites oh yeah but I know it's not it's not me
yeah there's no cuz that documentary needs to happen because that's a fucking
fascinating story yeah but I'm also fascinated by this different I just want
to add like lower this like fucking annula gay bombshell of a question because
of what has just happened which is okay so we see what the movement was in
Portland as far as I understand it and again as I always say on this podcast if
I know about it it's a it's gotten through a million miles of gravel because
my sole purpose is to avoid the world but what I understand is what happened is
that the the unfortunately named Proud Boys which is literally what I call my
dogs like I only because I just want them to be happy I just I just I just I
feel like they need encouragement and but I'm so conflicted every time I call
them and I go good good boys Proud Boys like they made do-do and yeah I'm so
propped that their actual stated movement which you gotta give props to the
Hank Aaron calling the fucking bleachers like they're like we're gonna do the
thing what I saw in the news was they're like we're gonna have a parade that's
themed and Tifa should be a terrorist group oh lord yeah which which throws
down this ridiculous like passive-aggressive child super nanny episode
like gauntlet which is like what are you gonna do show up and prove us right or
not show up and let us run rampant through the streets right so I what my
question to you is which is like the big Monty Python like 20 ton question is in
a world where now the president of the United States is like down to talk about
classification of terrorist groups based on amorphous ideology because as far as
I know and Tifa means against fascism right and I really would prefer to live
in a world where that's not sure terrorism sure however hey I'm just
chilling in my pool in a world where that it's it's like like does that affect
your because it's like aren't I don't want to say aren't we it's like like
isn't the same thing to say that this section of the garden hose of information
that is an eight-chan like oh that's evil that's that's a terrorist cell right
and I don't mean to make light of that observation because god damn it the
fucking links are more severe than if any of these people were brown or is
Islamic I mean that's when you when you start to compare the shit it's like
that's what it all gets black and white as comparisons are but it's like but I'm
saying like it's like it's like in the are we move aren't we all just don't
we just keep moving forward into civil war isn't that what we're doing and is
that just what we're doing you're asking me to predict if there will be a civil
war in the United States like is our is our ideology like eight chans evil it
should be shut down it is that the same thing as the president of the United
States saying the the word antifa which means if you show up with a homemade
gas mask and throw a fucking rock at a Nazi like now all of a sudden you're
associated with them like the they want that eight Chan to be illegal too they
want to pull the plug on that they want you to be a terrorist instead of just a
kid that threw a rock right so I think you're the answer here is that I do
think that unless the systemic problems which create fascism go away or
addressed this will continue so I mean it really begs the question like what is
fascism which I go over in the book but essentially when you look at it the
people that analyzed it in the 30s there was this combination of vast groups of
people who were disenfranchised Hannah Arendt who wrote the origins of totalitarianism
called them whoo D D D class right so they're without context they don't have
a job through these sort of throws of capitalism they're thrown and so totally
decontext by multicultural right so they search for identity and the last
refuge they hit upon is their right and yeah and then they imagine they also
have this other fantasy where they're like society is falling apart and just
like I'm dissipated and my personal I'm Cinderella there's a reason I don't have
a glass slipper yeah so like right I'm gonna say right anyway why don't I have
a glass I thought it was I wasn't trying to slow you down so I'm now I'm
trying to work in the Cinderella no don't don't no I was just going like I'm
like the lady in the church going like I was just backing you up I was trying to
support you so yeah so they are the anti since they're not getting the glass
slippers right yeah so they're like why not me so they find context in whiteness
which is like the last thing that they can do and then they imagine they're not
talented right yeah so they're and they don't have friends and they're like oh
my whiteness gives me context and it gives me identity and then the other
thing they do is they are like well why am I in the bottom so they have and if
you don't really read a lot if you don't think a lot then sort of the default
ideology is a sort of social Darwinist idea that life is the zero-sum game it's
this cruel hierarchy where there's a few people on the top and I'm on the bottom
and I have to climb my way to the top just like sort of like a cruel competitive
business man which is capitalism's fault yes right it's the capitalist
ideology right right it's not just capitalists minorities fault too for
they occupy the space that that's yeah that's the next step right when you
imagine that you blaming minorities for everything right so once you've got that
picture in your head and you're like I'm sorry for my friend don't apologize
he's a little racist
but this is a profound thing there's a finer line between capitalism and
fascism there always has been that's because both things say if you do your
work down here you can overtake your shitty-ass boss right fascism says if
you watch your shitty-ass boss long enough he's gonna slip up his fucking
throat it is I understand the the conflation I get it however I'm here
to tell you capitalism better so yeah so yeah then the next step is
imagining oh well the minorities at the top they've usurped that place that's
for me and I have to with all the gold end of politics is to displace them put
them at the bottom through violence or whatever so that's sort of the the the
rough picture of how it happens and then of course we see that exactly the same
it with the incel communities with these men on 4chan the exact same dynamics are
happening so you have a group D class totally marginalized group they have a
fantasy of becoming the breadwinner becoming the middle class and you see
that in the shooters where they're like oh that's kind of what I imagine will
happen after we kill everyone and create a fascist state and they imagine that oh
their personal crisis of dissolution where they're on the internet all day
surfing pornography that's like the nation in general and they're like oh
well the minorities that are coming over the border and the whole nation is
disintegrating just like I'm disintegrating right that's their image
also they really did make themselves poor black teens yeah so they exactly
right yeah there was this point in America where white people started to
make themselves minorities so they were like hey yeah we also have these issues
there's drug use in our communities we're poor we're not working we are just
we're suffering just like they are and we want the same weird race to want to
win yeah no yeah why do we want my own show and we want the same route we want
the same route to excellence that they get so we want grants we want special
privileges neighborhood I just started listening to this more perfect
podcast the brought to you by Radio Lab or whatever just like on paper it
couldn't be more boring like oh we're gonna talk about the Supreme Court like
decisions and I'm just like so addicted to it because it is like it makes you
realize like goddamn the national psyche like oh we're just we're embroiled in
this shit and of course we all know that as individuals you walked on the sidewalk
every day and you have all these unresolved issues that you won't cop to
and the reason you won't cop to them is because thank God you don't have to cop
to them you know you can put off those thoughts for another day because what's
your job well you need to graduate from college they need to get a job you need
to make money you got you got all these level ups you need to do before you get
to finally pronounce to everybody you here's the truth about the color of my
skin and the shape of my brain it's gonna be a sick shape though when I get
there you guys are gonna be excited there is a crazy yeah well whatever I'm
not gonna fucking dance playing the Supreme Court
podcast because it is like cast like a crazy the civil rights movement was
entirely based in the judicial branch and it was absolutely because which I
didn't realize it was like you go through all of these black history heroes
and things and you go well then this person they appealed this case all these
things you don't realize the overwhelming theme is the judicial branch and
then you realize that part of this part of our nation's history is actually
people who are going hey whoa the judicial branch shouldn't be this much in
charge of the fate of our country that there were key points where people are
like whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa what's going on here right we're not supposed
to be able to wait we should just sit here in our robes and like say whether
this guy robbed a grocery store or not right it's late from the bench like like
there was a key point when when it when it turned into a different thing and
became sure yeah anyways my name is Dan Harmon what's to come what's to come we
drive them are have we driven them into a space where it's harder to monitor now
that we put clamps down or they or or were they never really that scary to
begin with and they kind of hyped themselves I mean they are a real
threat and it's true that yeah when a chance gone they're just gonna scatter
to other places but I do think there's kind of cause for some hope here which
is that they're all teenagers or kids or men with the adolescent mindset of boys
that means they're kind of very mercurial very variable they have an
identity crisis inherent and that's where they started right and they're
like 10 years of Buffy reruns I have to try and then they're groping around and
they're like fascism that'll fix it yeah I'm trying I'm really trying to land in
a place where I understand this because I don't like I can like go through the
rest of the chronology like I feel like we we kind of like hit around 2012 to
like we got Gamergate in 2014 and then the and then the Trump stuff I'm cool
you're going through the rest of that timeline but I I'm always gonna have
this key issue which has to do with like I'm always gonna be that guy until I
see the light which by the way I'm also a big second amendment guy which none of
my listeners would agree with yeah I have all kinds of I mean the way that I
think about it is that like you know if we're getting closer to fascism do you
want less guns on the street I want all kinds of things but I don't want to be
in control of the Constitution I want people who who tell me the time I
choose to burst into flames sure that's not my right sure like I don't want that
to be yeah I don't I don't I'm very uncomfortable with the I with anything
that mitigates like just people like like constitutional I just don't I it's
very difficult for me when it gets to this point where we're talking about and
part of it is me dating myself to an age when the internet is just a ham radio
it's just a bunch of nerds going can you hear me can you hear me and maybe what
I need to understand about it is that this is how all of us communicate now
but I almost feel like that makes the case stronger in my mind that kids need
a pool hall to hang out in and if they're being racist and sexist and
murderous and horrible and if every kid that does a mass shooting even if
literally every single one of them can trace can be traced to have hung out at
one pool hall I'm I I definitely am willing to spend tax money on the FBI
investigating that right sure cuz I want to know if that whole hall is is
engaging in something is engaging in anything other than freedom because you
want to save those kids well I want to snow I fuck those fuck those kids no I
can't wait for those kids to go to the electric chair I don't know I don't
believe in capital punishment like if you fucking get hurt a person you think
it's okay you're fucking damaged goods but I like and if every person who's
damaged goods can trace themselves to rocky horror picture show which saved my
life like I don't I don't know man like I'm like where are kids supposed to go
they hang out they smoke pot behind the gas station on the in the in the in the
storm drain like where do you drive that we explain that I come from a storm
heavy state okay that's you got to do that like I'm saying like I really I do
not want to be guilty of this concept of oh boys will be boys there's just a
terrorist cell I I I'm like I just keep getting hung up on this concept of like
isn't like is this the thing like like like this this like it's a it's a
fucking IP address where they all and the only thing it has in common is that
it's the place where these twisted dark souls are communicating with each other
yeah I mean we're and we're we want to go like break it break it and it just
right and you're like worried about the crisis that will occur after that no
I'm actually I you know what no I'm not worried about the crisis about these
kids I believe that the crisis that will occur afterward will be our
absolutely justified punishment for for the fact that that's not that what we
should be doing right I mean it's not the solution yeah that's exactly right
it's like a lot of these solution online solutions are sort of treating the
symptom not the disease right so a lot of people were like you know a lot of
the problems stem on YouTube where the kids just watch YouTube all day and
everyone's like we'll tweak the YouTube algorithm we'll like kind of talk to the
corporation and the corporation will tweak something and they'll think that's
not gonna solve your fascism problem in America right so I mean the issue is
like it's not necessary I mean bringing kids to pool halls or whatever like
bringing kids other places but like it's more like there's just so many kids who
because of the way that American society works since 21st century is that yeah
it's really hard to have hope in your life and have like you know go up like as
you described like go from like okay I'm gonna work at school really hard then
I'm gonna work in my career really hard and then like 20 years later I'm
actually gonna be happy with my career and my life and all of that like so
instead they're like 20 years old and like I'm never gonna have a house at a
hundred thousand dollars in school debt and it's you know there's all these
corporations who are like if you play World of Warcraft all day we will
like that's exactly what we want you to do right so it's like those are the
things that are creating it maybe the most important thing for like a 17-year-old
kid listening to this right now who's like somewhere in the weird middle is to
actually say to them you know what forget what anybody is telling you the
actual objective truth is that you have control over your own destiny you have
control over how you feel about the universe you get to make up your mind
tomorrow how you wish people were treated you get to treat them that way you
you like you're going to be told by a thousand people a day for the next 20
years you're gonna let the other side says you're not allowed to do this and
and it like okay we don't even know if that's true but what's true right now
kid is that you definitely have agency you absolutely do right it went that
stops being true you won't be listening to this anymore and you like like like
be careful because actually by the grace of this great country you are fully
able to be reached by both fascists and socialists by anarchists and rapists like
you I just yes those are the spectrums that's the spec yeah the last one you
surprised me but okay you your science don't let anyone trick you into thinking
that they did that they're only reaching you through some limited channel I'm
pretty sure right that part of the big problem right now is that if there's a
if there's a phase of thought like it is getting through to you and we are
counting on you little fella fella a little non-binary heart Armenian like
like to recognize that you are somewhere caught on the fence in that verdun that
you are that that you need to take advantage of those forces and don't
let any of them trick you into thinking this is a war about what you're allowed
to do you're allowed to do anything you want you were born with the freedom of
speech you were born with the freedom of you or me what yeah the law used to say
you weren't allowed to be gay 1998 they let you be gay like it didn't make you
not gay in 1997 like we will catch up right you don't need to radicalize you
belong to a country yeah whatever yeah I mean yeah don't don't fucking mass shoot
don't mass shoot I have shopping to do I may wander into a fucking public place
don't mass shoot you little shit bags yeah yeah that I ruined it I ruined it I
just don't want to mass shoot honestly that's all I don't care that's that's
where you don't vote don't vote yeah I mean I do vote to vote but if you vote
against mass shooting I sorry what you're gonna say you're right that that I
really didn't ruin it too much time in that motherfucking drain pipe smoking weed
there's a storm okay go ahead storm drain fine I'm sorry I'm sorry no please
don't apologize tell me what to do I've lost it I've lost it was there is there
a journalism version of this like it has this happened this phenomenon of
fortune and HN has happened before was it like was it yellow journalism was a
time magazine in the 20s have ever seen I think that the underlying dynamics of
of what fascism is we see what what happened with fortune is replic was
replicated in 1930s where it was a group of disenfranchised people in the same
way who were searching for sort of identities and excuse for being on the
bottom and then we're so angry they wanted this form of power politics they
didn't trust the press in the same way was there internet film was there
internet film were they able to were they able to spread out like people are
spreading out right now yeah I mean so the weird thing about fascism is that
it's not old your your guest before talked about this where it's really a
result of industrialization in the modern world so it doesn't stretch farther
back than that so it's a response to all of that it's a response to industrial
capitalism to film and media coming out and propaganda generate right that all
that was part of the dynamic I mean the new part is that we have the internet
it's now manifesting on the internet that's the new part and sort of the group
think part where they're all together convincing each other of it that's a
new part that's a new internet part of the phenomenon but for the most part the
those so there's that replication and then the other replication like our
second time where media has been used to get people together yeah in this
respect yeah I mean it's really like you can think of it if you think of it in
historical sweep the way that I frame it in my book is that everyone in the late
19th century thought there would be a crisis of capitalism it occurred and
instead of what Marx predicted where we would all become socialists they became
instead of most many of the countries in Europe became fascist and and it was
invented we were like what the hell is this and almost took over the world it
was defeated militarily but then philosophers of the afterwards and
thinkers who wrote on it said well maybe it's not defeated intellectually maybe
it's just militarily and so now we're at a point where inequality is at the same
record highs as it was in the 30s again and we're seeing the same dynamics again
and so there was sort of this era in the 90s and the 80s where the there was the
end of history era where they said American capitalism will last forever
that system will last forever and now we're seeing a return to the dynamics of
the 30s where youth culture is about we now again have socialists and communist
youth culture fighting on the streets with fascist youth culture because the
same dynamics are creating it so that's the replication crazy yeah and the other
we can sort of chart five years from now so yeah so what World War two is that
where we're at no we're too old we're not gonna get drafted I don't fare well
no matter what I mean the silver lining there is that what I was saying before
about the them being so young and them in this personal crisis is that like
during the first HN shooting the Christ Church one the other thing that was
happening on the boards was that all of these Trump supporters and fascists were
breaking away and they said well maybe I should support Andrew Yang because he
gives me a thousand dollars right so that's like a crazy shift right but
they're kid like and they felt like oh well this just addresses some of the
problems right the problem is that I want to join society and they don't know
the answer they're trying to get the answer of YouTube which is like some
way to get information make my a-button work yeah is there a reason why women
didn't start this sort of a movement oh well I'll feel that thank you ladies I
appreciate seeing that yeah I mean like this people always ask me this they're
like this you know like they're like yeah look at all these other minority
groups they're not acting like these huge assholes right women are and I'm
like yeah men are scum they're like they're actually that in that is in a
sense the answer that we know that for some reason men when they feel like
losers act very toxically that when they get in the situation there's a toxic
response and they sort of feed into it and become worse and they own the
identity of being a troll being obnoxious and then no one wants to defend
them and they get even worse and worse and worse so there is like this new
leftist youth movement which is kind of created by people who were on the
outright and got out of it people who weren't fortune and realized what was
happening and there's sort of like this YouTube section where they're like look
we're gonna be compassionate to you we know what's going on we want you to
come to left because the left has better solutions so there are sort of efforts
to break it apart to sort of recognize those underlying dynamics because it's
sort of a cult mentality yeah that's exactly right and then they're bad
answers right like the answer like you think like how bad answers right I guess
I don't have to have the right at the end no one's like yeah yeah so it's just a
sad thing to end with that punctuation I mean they're bad answers right like
we're all gonna die I mean you get it I mean you wrote a book I hoped you would
have oh yeah like I haven't figured it out yet yeah I'm like really yeah so like
in the end I sort of settled on the idea the fascism was bad that really was
gonna be my next question what do you think is gonna happen what's your
qualified projection I mean I know this is what your book is about your book is
about researching facts and stating things but as a human being like where
are you at when you wake up in the morning because I know I go I go up and
down up and down I have these like mood swings I feel like I'm living in the
end times right and then I'm like I just we tell me tell tell me how to feel
child I do think that I think that if the systemic issues are addressed if for
example the Democrats win in the next election okay if Bernie wins or someone
similar wins and there are social programs implemented and things get
better for this vast group of marginalized people then they will get
better okay what happens if those things don't happen right so I mean look
what what asking for a friend okay yeah like well what happened in Iraq when
they you know they had millions of young men who were angry and jobless and
didn't have yeah so you know you have a vast group
of disenfranchised people who think they can never join society and they're
all angry young men right what happens to those honestly like or a hip-hop yeah
then you get hip right like Brandon Brandon stop pushing your agenda you
get yeah serious stop it your people have had
enough this is a real thing going on you can't turn it into a music thing with
the toast that you're trying to make just soft this is about a press white
people sorry my giant anxiety the thing is that like I teach at a HBC a
certainly black college university and like it's full they don't tell me HBC
it's chance for Morgan Morgan's Morgan State I teach like animation they all
they all want to be like you they're like they're gonna create yeah they're all
like they want to make animation I teach the animation department yeah yeah and
they end many black have you never been to the Dan lives matter if I yeah if I
mentioned Rick and Morty that's just the class and they're just like well what
happened but you know they it's like that's not their response right they've
they've had much more lives and they're and they're just like I'm gonna make
beautiful art you know because it doesn't it's not acceptable to sort of go
off on your own like if a motherfucker was like yeah where's Daryl been like if
Daryl was on 4-channel day somebody's gonna go get him yeah yeah be like hey
man now yeah they got that shooter look yeah yeah they got like a lot more
common sense yeah it's not common sense it's not common sense it's sometimes
there is this great thing out of and I hate to say this but out of oppression
comes like a closeness so there might be this camaraderie that is not some
angelic we're all African it might be like we're literally all poured together
and that's the camaraderie that keeps us from getting distance from one another
yeah we're on the same shitty way to get close but it does it does save you in
the end right yeah yeah I have a terrible spell to cast sick I it's 2019 so
there's an election coming up right 2020 yeah okay so you have to choose one
president right yeah yeah there's only one so doesn't it seem like no matter
fucking what yeah civil war that's I don't I mean is it is it more likely a
civil war will take place in America than ten years ago five years ago yes
right I don't know I mean I think that America does have a lot of safeguards but
you know I mean too safe but to my you know to my leftist friends Mike my
friends the far left they're like they weren't surprised by Trump they're like
this isn't this isn't a glitch right this is like the or America like the
ultimate like McDonald's chump we're all getting prepping yeah like giving them
30-day sparklet bottles I mean there was like I mean there was this a given
you right the fall of the Roman Empire he had this expression where he said like
the Empire was so strong that it could survive its worst leaders all these
worst leaderships that the structure itself was good enough right we'll be
fine so yeah so it could be that we have really terrible leaders and the structure
there's enough safeguards there but I think there's another country out there
with more money that's got half the population of the earth that's yeah I
mean we don't have anything to worry about we're fine we could we could just
have growing pains let's have a thousand bad presidents in a row just keeping a
gun I mean like there's no such thing as China Chinese Chinese it's half the
earth but remember who holds all of our debt China right but we can default what
we can default and we and Brandon and we have done that before what we have
defaulted before wait we can't so what China point they're going to say that
what are they gonna do they go some bill collector yeah like that's why t-bills
t-bonds that's why like I guarantee like the also let me tell you they have a
shit ton of newly imported gold I love that we all think China's just gonna
hang out and love their money what else are they gonna do look China they're
waiting wait what are you talking about sitting on a shit their debt of our debt
it's gonna take a lot for them to fuck us up did China all right
promise you it's there's only all right okay okay I don't look here's the quick
here's the quick breakdown a guy comes up to you bros ten bucks okay you can't
pay that 10 back you know you're not gonna pay that 10 back and you got 30 in
the time to be borrowed that 10 okay who's your new enemy you got 30 bucks
wait wait wait get you gotta take me and in the meantime I assume you're
China you're gonna kill me but you got fucking 30 bucks 20 yeah but the wind
30 bucks becomes worth less than eight dollars because we've done this too many
times technically it's worth 20 because you're running out the clock but the guy
that you owe hey China there's a clock what do you want to hang out the pool
I got a I'm a mr. pool master and they said yes we're the yes you're so good at
pool table no we don't own shit they're half of the earth so like answer is the
guy that you owe ten bucks becomes your new enemy so you start to try and take
the means of him you're so confident because I know the numbers I want you
to know the numbers there this guy knows the numbers this is got the numbers
yeah he's got all right googleable things all right all right okay well
nothing's gonna happen everyone really no you're not worried about China why
would I be worried about all right fine I'm not worried about China yeah don't
worry about you need to worry about you should worry about Russia why would I
worry about Russia they've never done anything right she doesn't like it
spotless yeah I'm like it's a bad boy money yeah no I worry about that no
China come on all right what who are you worried about I'm Israel but good
is there is the running joke they're a little chewy I'm worried about yeah I'm
worried a little bit worried about China I'm a little bit worried about Russia
though I'm worried about Saudi Arabia a little bit I guess I'm mostly worried
about the US probably about sure what yeah yeah I mean that's where we are yeah
I know I know I know what are we gonna yeah I mean well we never done nothing
to nobody yeah that's true can I ask are there other versions of 4chan in other
countries or do countries suppress the growth of these sorts of movements yeah
so that's the other part that you asked if it had repeated I talked to a
Japanese scholar who's a writer and for his book that he's writing and he told
me that it all happened in Japan on two channel before it happened in the US so
the exact same dynamics so was the election was there an election or an
outcome that was similar to ours how did they demonstrate that yeah so I write
about this a little bit in my book where it was the same dynamic where they had
had sort of a hacktivist collective and they went leftist and sort of was
rebellious it started in a taco culture then they went to the far right and the
scandal that I wrote about was in 2012 or so there was sort of the guy who was
running two channel he got it was clear that he was sort of taking money from the
traditional conservative party there to delete messages because the board was
going to the far right and then some weird stuff happened where he got kicked
out and that was 2014 that was Gamergate so at that time the the 15-year-old kid
now in his 20s Moot Christopher Moot pool who was running 4chan he got kicked
off he left 4chan he's like sold it right yeah he sold it to the owner of two
channel okay because that guy now had no longer had a chance to run is two
channel related in any way to the rapper two chains if only yeah so so there was
this musical chair of the chans musical chairs where the owner of two channel
kicked out of two channel because of this far right radicalization now runs
4chan he still runs 4chan Christopher Moot pool now he got hired by Google to
no one knows I asked Google I was like hey you know you want to tell me what he
does for you why you hired him and they said no so that's where they roll back
it's on the behavioral side yeah I mean I mean presumably he writes he's really
good at running making really cool addictive websites for young people
trains running yeah so I mean he probably I mean another component of this is
how young people are addicted to YouTube and they get radicalized on YouTube
which is owned by Google so yeah so and then at during the two channel scandal
who took control of two channel was this crazy guy in the Philippines who was US
Army veteran he was running the servers in the Philippines he took control of
two channel which is very profitable unlike the rest of the chans and then
he used that money to buy a Chan during Gamergate and he still runs a Chan so
that's Jim Watkins that's the guy who last week everyone was like you have to
shut it down and he's like no so he's using the two-channel money to run a
Chan that's his only profitable enterprise so real quick everyone who's here
in the audience tonight you've been doxxed
Social Security number yeah I mean they don't troll me that much maybe now they
will they like they never noticed me they don't they don't seem to love being
talked about you know they really hate it they I mean if I were a woman I think
I'd get a lot of shit from them but but I gotta say I gotta when I'm in my pool
yeah and I always am and my fiance says Antifa's fighting the flicky flak I
don't know who they're fighting the president says Antifa should be a
terrorist group I'm like I'm in my pool and I'm like that's stupid like that's
dumb fair fair it means yeah I mean Antifa there I said it I'm against
fascism like I didn't sign anything I mean there is a little bit of a
distinction there where you want to go out on the street and they want to use
any means necessary right they're not nonviolent protesters so that that is a
difference they want to intimidate those people and I sympathize with that in in
many degrees but at the same time it's I can see yeah I mean it's fucking weird
because if when TV was being invented when America was like tuning in fritz the
cat or whatever the fuck the first image was feel like sir whatever the
fucking fritz it's a different thing honey I can't see the Indian point net
the compass I if the first thing that came over there's airwaves was a guy
going like hey you should distribute your wealth like like like the FCC would
be like fuck this fuck this fuck this and we wouldn't have that and in the
internet kind of existed in spite of all of that right yeah but it's so it yeah
I mean I just I can't I don't know I mean I can't agree more that this is a
place where we've identified the place where it's the most sizely of I don't
want to romanticize that I don't want to romanticize it like that it's because
actually I most easily I think those guys are nice yeah most of them were
pretty kind I just I like I just don't I can't I can't abide you're just like
reeling from the idea that we know where it is that like we know this like we
don't understand how that ends that that that tic-tac-toe game where we're like
oh you're here then well well yeah and then they just move somewhere else if I
had an analogy for that that I could understand it because currently and I
understand this is totally Pollyanna but like it I'm just offering this out to
you so that you can say something back to me it's almost like during the
reconstruction period we're like bedsheets gotta get rid of bedsheets like
get their their their hoods are made oh I see right pillowcases right no there
is there is shut down that target yeah they're buying there is a bit of that
yes right so I think okay right well all right well Brandon that's easy for you
to say god damn it you love target yeah so it's it's treating one of the
symptoms but not not actually the disease yeah even and even might even
there yeah it's not like it's not like a chain gets shut down and then all the
people that were there were like oh well now I'm no longer a Nazi right they go
elsewhere but in terms of they even go well I was 15 years old here's my story
I was pretending to be a Nazi for a little bit I thought I'd toy around being
a Nazi and then the thing happened the federal government shut down each and
but and that's when I learned I needed to be racist I mean but the component
there is that like a chain and the chans and websites like that they take a lot
of work to maintain you have to be you have to have full-time programmers you
have to build it and you have to constantly rebuild it and maintain it
all this racism got me tired every day it's a new hate I can't even come up
with names for these people anymore and the server fell down yeah that's a
very interesting point so it's something that people have built and
maintained and like a lot of those people are trolls like Watkins or they're
people who regret it like the founder of a chan and it's like so it's a little
bit like himself would be chewed up he'd be ripped apart by his own people
because of his disability um yeah he's not disability yeah I mean that's one
of those weird where he yeah I mean that that's certainly a contradiction yeah
and he kind of almost tilt it to the far right for a little bit he in 2000 when
he was deep in that he was sort of deep in the in cell culture and was
administering some of the sites that had started Gamergate and he wrote for one
of the most famous trolls was a fortune troll that that then started the daily
stormer and the founder of a chan Frederick Brennan he wrote for the daily
stormer and his article was like I am a disabled supporter of eugenics he's like
people should yeah he's like people because he said that his dad had him to
collect the disability checks so he's like people should be tested for this
disease so that was like the darkness of like so it's like in body sort of that
idea of like really people on the bottom that's kind of it's kind of cool it's
punk rock like that that joke about what it would have what a what a what a what a
my dad and cancer what's the difference between my dad and cancer wait what
how what does it go that shit brother's like a funny what's the joke what's the
joke dad wait fuck fuck what's the difference between me and cancer my dad
beat cancer right wait no that's not right no that means it's awesome to go
dark it's like it's especially it gives you fucking credit I mean the more
suicidal you are it's like fucking like people like listen to this guy's fucking
like he's on the edge of the earth like like listen to him yeah and yeah so so
the metaphor is like it's like you know they build all this stuff so it's like
someone you know you built your show you made your show like you all this
creative forces went into making and then someone's like I want to write for it
well it's like well who who you get to use it why right so all of the stuff
that someone else built why are you maintaining it why are you building it
like all of that like do they get the right to have a chance I just don't
understand the right to have a space in the internet that doesn't make any sense
to me I do understand the idea of like oh it takes so much money to keep this
place alive right you found out that tumblr was only possible because someone
kept pumping money into it and they kept taking a lot and be like well right did
you know this about tumblr right I yeah that it just seems I don't know so you're
right that part of it is reactionary where people like we need a solution this
problem and then everyone on Twitter and all the experts are saying they're like
well we'll just shut down a chin that will get less teens radicalized which is
true right it when they break apart they have to reform but yeah it does not
address those systemic underlying problems that create these people in the
first place so you're right it's like whack-a-mole where there will be another
one but you actually what happened is they went to another one they went to
Enchan and immediately went to fortune to each and they go to 16 and I don't
know if that's how the number it's actually if you look historically at
these sites it's incredibly it's only the fluke of Jim Watkins and the
Philippines having all the money through to channel that allows a chance to exist
so the next one they went to immediately collapsed like the guy that's
running that there's no way and a time and this has happened it happened like
2006 and 2007 where they're like for chance not bad enough we want to even
worse one and then they went to these other ones and they all collapsed so it's
actually very hard to maintain the chance okay so well we should read your
book and find out like okay so what is the money that goes into the antenna
that pumps these forums like open because they actually are not just part of
the Central Park of the New York of the internet bad metaphor the it takes it
takes a it takes a bunch of fucking money to force open that part of the
internet right and in fact that normal libertarian free market politics were in
play it wouldn't be profitable it would shut down so it's an actual fucking
political yeah like someone has to be passionate to take a loss yeah that's
that beacon open and and that still is not to say shut it down they don't have
the right to have it but it's certainly important to know who that person is
right yeah exactly I mean maybe maybe they leave it open and use it as like a
FBI I mean it's the same where they like they'll go to discord right which
and someone built discord which is this chat app right and they have to maintain
it and there's a ton of program this isn't a profitable pool hall so who who
who loves it this much yeah so like you know the people that build these things
they have the right to say like I built it it's not you can go I mean you can go
learn HTML right you can learn you can code HTML you can put up free market
politics like yeah and liberalism it's not like that could go like hey well yeah
let's follow the money there's nothing how is this not it was like you can raise
suspicion about people that aren't profiting from something for over 10
years ago like why spending so much money on this right almost seems like a
charity for you yeah I mean I did he he's a troll that's what he he wants to
source of income to channel so to channel because to channel is different it
was the first one it didn't have images so without images the server costs are
much lower which means that it actually is profitable it's a business model that
is profitable okay and to channel also like 4chan first in Japan it was the
sort of dark otaku place where the otaku hung out and then it just became
one of the most popular sites in Japan and it was like deeply influential in
the culture and everyone kind of uses it and they kind of delight in the
anonymity because Japanese society so structured so it's sort of like similar
to to 4chan but it had this big cultural impact so he he gets all his money
through that and we think that's how much that I don't know what the numbers
are yeah like I don't know how many it's gotta be a burgeoning empire all right
well since tonight I assume because these people don't like being talked about
period even though we've tried to talk about them objectively I I'll tell you
I jerk off on a mannequin leg I rub it on my nipple
I put a sharpie pin on my ass a sexually harassed a co-worker I thought we weren't
gonna talk about it is this their part I simulated making passionate love to a
part of the podcast at the end of 2009 confess everything we did wrong no you
don't have to I'm just protecting myself like I'm like like I can't think of
anything like whatever some people brag but they don't really elect me as your
alderman in 2000 whatever it is there I just wanted to cover myself yeah do
whatever you want can I ask before we go real quick yeah what is the thing that
the average person could do I know this sounds crazy like it's a it's a camp
Brockman piece but is there a way that people protect themselves from being a
target of these groups yeah I mean I think the best thing is not if it if it
were they really do target you when you you can take proactive action the target
of Gamergate Zoe Quinn the main one she had dedicated a lot of work to what
exactly to do so she has a lot of resources I would recommend her book
okay for that excellent but yeah there's there's definitely recourse there
people are more cognizant of now that it happens but certainly like yeah they
pick who they want yeah and don't you know you there's a lot of sort of like
emotional advice there we you know don't want to overreact you don't want to try
and let it get to you because I mean like you're there idiots there and like oh
it could it could put a gun in your mouth it can't what it can put a gun in
your mouth is it yeah people don't like being told that they're a horrible human
being yeah right yeah right it can make you want to kill yourself yeah and it's
fun the internet is full of very you know like we're all deep sensitive souls
so it's like very easy to get upset about stuff that was in the end of that
anyone yeah they know that yeah right they know what they're doing yeah and so
they love it yeah I mean they're ultimately very powerless which is why
they do it through the internet so if you kind of recognize that you can get a
handle it's your your book is called it it came from something awful came from
something awful look for it at B Dalton back in the 90s yeah like look for it at
the B Dalton a stranger things like in the mall torrent yeah steal it please no
that's not thank you so much for coming I think yeah I think the only thing we
have left to do is a is a wrap about here the wicked
the
I'm gonna drink it
For not bonkers
Fuckin', Mama's so hard
Hold on, hold on
Internet
Tickets
Branded
Boom, boom, boom
You set me up
My sty right is shit
It's so crum
Yeah
Boom
How's it feel to get past the mic when you're not rushing?
I'm too young for it, I've got to use it
Oh, I love to rap about the Internet
Oh, why fire is my guy?
I want five bigger heads in the sky
I got the wireless antenna
And I'm gonna do the David Brenna
1989's in the Internet
I want Brenna
Ladies and gentlemen, that has been Harmontown
God bless you all
We love coming to you from the lovely downtown Dynasty Theater
Please say a big round of applause
Or a pop a big round of applause
For Nolan from Rebus, Zac McKeever
Or Castell
What is that?
And Dan, the Harmingman
Get it?
Get it, get it, get it, get it
I'm number two
Dale Brennan
Ladies and gentlemen
This is how we should be done
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show